---
title: "Social benefits and private costs of driving restriction policies: The impact of Madrid Central on congestion, pollution, and consumer spending"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/JEEA_2023
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-06-01
venue: 'Journal of the European Economic Association'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://academic.oup.com/jeea/article-abstract/21/3/1227/6779684 '
---

Low Emission Zones are defined areas within a city where driving restrictions are introduced with the aim to reduce pollution, but they may also unintentionally distort consumer spending decisions. By increasing transportation costs to ban-affected areas, driving restrictions could discourage spending in stores of those areas. This paper empirically evaluates the effects of a driving restriction regulation in Madrid, Spain, known as Madrid Central. First, using a difference-in-differences identification strategy, we find an immediate decrease of 19% in pollution and of 16% in congestion. Second, we rely on credit card transaction data to show consumers most affected by the regulation (i.e., those living further away Madrid Central area and with lower options to use public transport) reduced their brick-and-mortar spending in the regulated area. Finally, we find that these consumers partially substitute their consumption spending from brick-and-mortar to online shopping, suggesting that e-commerce may smooth the impact of changes in transportation costs due to environmental regulations.

<br>

<cite>Galdon-Sanchez, J. E., Gil, R., Holub, F., & Uriz-Uharte, G. (2023). Social benefits and private costs of driving restriction policies: The impact of Madrid Central on congestion, pollution, and consumer spending. Journal of the European Economic Association, 21(3), 1227-1267.<cite>
